# nonceMiner

A quick casual project I wrote to try out applying hash midstate caching on the cryptocurrency project [duino-coin](https://github.com/revoxhere/duino-coin). The idea is to cache the SHA-1 algorithm's state after it processes the prefix (creating the midstate) then to finish the hash with the guessed nonces repeatedly, but while reusing the midstate, until the right nonce is found. This saves a lot of calculation, and it's already being used in Bitcoin mining.

Running Multiprocess_nonceMiner.py with `N_PROCESSES = 128`, my i7-8550U peaked at 16 MH/s. In other words, it's probably the fastest DUCO-S1 miner around, barring GPUs. To try it out yourself, grab a release! Then in the nonceMiner_release folder, just run the command `python ./mp_miner.py username processes` in Windows or `python3 ./mp_miner.py username processes` in Linux, replacing `username` with your Duino-coin username and `processes` with the number of processes (128 recommended, 64 recommended for less powerful machines).

The "src" folder contains C code that implements the shortcut and also a Cython wrapper, so C/C++ programmers can use those source files. This includes an unmodified copy of [sha1](https://github.com/clibs/sha1). Python programmers can grab the precompiled extension from a release. However, cloning this repo will require compiling it from scratch. This means you will need to install Cython and Visual Studio Build Tools 2019 in Windows, or just Cython in Linux. From there, just run `make windows` or `make linux-gnu`.